docs/install/mlc_llm.rst, before:

.. _install-mlc-packages:

Install MLC LLM Python Package
==============================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2

MLC LLM Python Package can be installed directly from a prebuilt developer package, or built from source.

Option 1. Prebuilt Package
--------------------------

We provide nightly built pip wheels for MLC-LLM via pip.
Select your operating system/compute platform and run the command in your terminal:

.. note::
    ❗ Whenever using Python, it is highly recommended to use **conda** to manage an isolated Python environment to avoid missing dependencies, incompatible versions, and package conflicts.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Linux

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: CPU

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly mlc-ai-nightly

            .. tab:: CUDA 12.1

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-cu121 mlc-ai-nightly-cu121

            .. tab:: CUDA 12.2

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-cu122 mlc-ai-nightly-cu122

            .. tab:: ROCm 5.6

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-rocm56 mlc-ai-nightly-rocm56

            .. tab:: ROCm 5.7

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-rocm57 mlc-ai-nightly-rocm57

            .. tab:: Vulkan

                Supported in all Linux packages. Checkout the following instructions
                to install the latest vulkan loader to avoid vulkan not found issue.

        .. note::


            .. code-block:: bash

                conda install -c conda-forge gcc libvulkan-loader


            If encountering issues with GLIBC not found, please install the latest glibc in conda:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda install -c conda-forge libgcc-ng

            Besides, we would recommend using Python 3.11; so if you are creating a new environment,
            you could use the following command:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda create --name mlc-prebuilt  python=3.11

    .. tab:: macOS

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: CPU + Metal

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly mlc-ai-nightly

        .. note::

            Always check if conda is installed properly in macOS using the command below:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda info | grep platform

            It should return "osx-64" for Mac with Intel chip, and "osx-arm64" for Mac with Apple chip.

    .. tab:: Windows

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: CPU + Vulkan

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly mlc-ai-nightly

        .. note::
            If encountering the error below:

            .. code-block:: bash

                FileNotFoundError: Could not find module 'path\to\site-packages\tvm\tvm.dll' (or one of its dependencies). Try using the full path with constructor syntax.

            It is likely `zstd`, a dependency to LLVM, was missing. Please use the command below to get it installed:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda install zstd


Then you can verify installation in command line:

.. code-block:: bash

    python -c "import mlc_llm; print(mlc_llm)"
    # Prints out: <module 'mlc_llm' from '/path-to-env/lib/python3.11/site-packages/mlc_llm/__init__.py'>

|

.. _mlcchat_build_from_source:

Option 2. Build from Source
---------------------------

We also provide options to build mlc runtime libraries ``mlc_llm`` from source.
This step is useful when you want to make modification or obtain a specific version of mlc runtime.


**Step 1. Set up build dependency.** To build from source, you need to ensure that the following build dependencies are satisfied:

* CMake >= 3.24
* Git
* `Rust and Cargo <https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install>`_, required by Hugging Face's tokenizer
* One of the GPU runtimes:

    * CUDA >= 11.8 (NVIDIA GPUs)
    * Metal (Apple GPUs)
    * Vulkan (NVIDIA, AMD, Intel GPUs)

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Set up build dependencies in Conda

    # make sure to start with a fresh environment
    conda env remove -n mlc-chat-venv
    # create the conda environment with build dependency
    conda create -n mlc-chat-venv -c conda-forge \
        "cmake>=3.24" \
        rust \
        git \
        python=3.11
    # enter the build environment
    conda activate mlc-chat-venv

.. note::
    For runtime, :doc:`TVM Unity </install/tvm>` compiler is not a dependency for MLCChat CLI or Python API. Only TVM's runtime is required, which is automatically included in `3rdparty/tvm <https://github.com/mlc-ai/mlc-llm/tree/main/3rdparty>`_.
    However, if you would like to compile your own models, you need to follow :doc:`TVM Unity </install/tvm>`.

**Step 2. Configure and build.** A standard git-based workflow is recommended to download MLC LLM, after which you can specify build requirements with our lightweight config generation tool:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Configure and build

    # clone from GitHub
    git clone --recursive https://github.com/mlc-ai/mlc-llm.git && cd mlc-llm/
    # create build directory
    mkdir -p build && cd build
    # generate build configuration
    python3 ../cmake/gen_cmake_config.py
    # build mlc_llm libraries
    cmake .. && cmake --build . --parallel $(nproc) && cd ..

.. note::
    If you are using CUDA and your compute capability is above 80, then it is require to build with
    ``set(USE_FLASHINFER ON)``. Otherwise, you may run into ``Cannot find PackedFunc`` issue during
    runtime.

    To check your CUDA compute capability, you can use ``nvidia-smi --query-gpu=compute_cap --format=csv``.

**Step 3. Install via Python.** We recommend that you install ``mlc_llm`` as a Python package, giving you
access to ``mlc_llm.compile``, ``mlc_llm.ChatModule``, and the CLI.
There are two ways to do so:

    .. tabs ::

       .. code-tab :: bash Install via environment variable

          export PYTHONPATH=/path-to-mlc-llm/python:$PYTHONPATH

       .. code-tab :: bash Install via pip local project

          conda activate your-own-env
          which python # make sure python is installed, expected output: path_to_conda/envs/your-own-env/bin/python
          cd /path-to-mlc-llm/python
          pip install -e .

**Step 4. Validate installation.** You may validate if MLC libarires and mlc_llm CLI is compiled successfully using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Validate installation

    # expected to see `libmlc_llm.so` and `libtvm_runtime.so`
    ls -l ./build/
    # expected to see help message
    mlc_llm chat -h

Finally, you can verify installation in command line. You should see the path you used to build from source with:

.. code:: bash

   python -c "import mlc_llm; print(mlc_llm)"

Commit message:

[JIT] Better organize JIT and AOT handling (#2191)
* [JIT] Better organize JIT and AOT handling

Previously we do JIT when AOT lib lookup failed.
The error message can become cryptic when JIT also fails,
it will show up as cannot find None-vulkan.dll.

This PR changes the behavior to only to lookup when model_lib_path
is provided, or only to JIT when it is not. This will leads to
cleaner error message overall.

* Windows compact

* More windows instructions

docs/install/mlc_llm.rst, after:

.. _install-mlc-packages:

Install MLC LLM Python Package
==============================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :local:
    :depth: 2

MLC LLM Python Package can be installed directly from a prebuilt developer package, or built from source.

Option 1. Prebuilt Package
--------------------------

We provide nightly built pip wheels for MLC-LLM via pip.
Select your operating system/compute platform and run the command in your terminal:

.. note::
    ❗ Whenever using Python, it is highly recommended to use **conda** to manage an isolated Python environment to avoid missing dependencies, incompatible versions, and package conflicts.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: Linux

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: CPU

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly mlc-ai-nightly

            .. tab:: CUDA 12.1

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-cu121 mlc-ai-nightly-cu121

            .. tab:: CUDA 12.2

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-cu122 mlc-ai-nightly-cu122

            .. tab:: ROCm 5.6

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-rocm56 mlc-ai-nightly-rocm56

            .. tab:: ROCm 5.7

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly-rocm57 mlc-ai-nightly-rocm57

            .. tab:: Vulkan

                Supported in all Linux packages. Checkout the following instructions
                to install the latest vulkan loader to avoid vulkan not found issue.

        .. note::


            .. code-block:: bash

                conda install -c conda-forge gcc libvulkan-loader


            If encountering issues with GLIBC not found, please install the latest glibc in conda:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda install -c conda-forge libgcc-ng

            Besides, we would recommend using Python 3.11; so if you are creating a new environment,
            you could use the following command:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda create --name mlc-prebuilt  python=3.11

    .. tab:: macOS

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: CPU + Metal

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly mlc-ai-nightly

        .. note::

            Always check if conda is installed properly in macOS using the command below:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda info | grep platform

            It should return "osx-64" for Mac with Intel chip, and "osx-arm64" for Mac with Apple chip.

    .. tab:: Windows

        .. tabs::

            .. tab:: CPU + Vulkan

                .. code-block:: bash

                    conda activate your-environment
                    python3 -m pip install --pre -U -f https://mlc.ai/wheels mlc-llm-nightly mlc-ai-nightly

        .. note::
            Make sure you also install vulkan loader and clang to avoid vulkan
            not found error or clang not found(needed for jit compile)

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda install -c conda-forge clang libvulkan-loader

            If encountering the error below:

            .. code-block:: bash

                FileNotFoundError: Could not find module 'path\to\site-packages\tvm\tvm.dll' (or one of its dependencies). Try using the full path with constructor syntax.

            It is likely `zstd`, a dependency to LLVM, was missing. Please use the command below to get it installed:

            .. code-block:: bash

                conda install zstd


Then you can verify installation in command line:

.. code-block:: bash

    python -c "import mlc_llm; print(mlc_llm)"
    # Prints out: <module 'mlc_llm' from '/path-to-env/lib/python3.11/site-packages/mlc_llm/__init__.py'>

|

.. _mlcchat_build_from_source:

Option 2. Build from Source
---------------------------

We also provide options to build mlc runtime libraries ``mlc_llm`` from source.
This step is useful when you want to make modification or obtain a specific version of mlc runtime.


**Step 1. Set up build dependency.** To build from source, you need to ensure that the following build dependencies are satisfied:

* CMake >= 3.24
* Git
* `Rust and Cargo <https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install>`_, required by Hugging Face's tokenizer
* One of the GPU runtimes:

    * CUDA >= 11.8 (NVIDIA GPUs)
    * Metal (Apple GPUs)
    * Vulkan (NVIDIA, AMD, Intel GPUs)

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Set up build dependencies in Conda

    # make sure to start with a fresh environment
    conda env remove -n mlc-chat-venv
    # create the conda environment with build dependency
    conda create -n mlc-chat-venv -c conda-forge \
        "cmake>=3.24" \
        rust \
        git \
        python=3.11
    # enter the build environment
    conda activate mlc-chat-venv

.. note::
    For runtime, :doc:`TVM Unity </install/tvm>` compiler is not a dependency for MLCChat CLI or Python API. Only TVM's runtime is required, which is automatically included in `3rdparty/tvm <https://github.com/mlc-ai/mlc-llm/tree/main/3rdparty>`_.
    However, if you would like to compile your own models, you need to follow :doc:`TVM Unity </install/tvm>`.

**Step 2. Configure and build.** A standard git-based workflow is recommended to download MLC LLM, after which you can specify build requirements with our lightweight config generation tool:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Configure and build

    # clone from GitHub
    git clone --recursive https://github.com/mlc-ai/mlc-llm.git && cd mlc-llm/
    # create build directory
    mkdir -p build && cd build
    # generate build configuration
    python3 ../cmake/gen_cmake_config.py
    # build mlc_llm libraries
    cmake .. && cmake --build . --parallel $(nproc) && cd ..

.. note::
    If you are using CUDA and your compute capability is above 80, then it is require to build with
    ``set(USE_FLASHINFER ON)``. Otherwise, you may run into ``Cannot find PackedFunc`` issue during
    runtime.

    To check your CUDA compute capability, you can use ``nvidia-smi --query-gpu=compute_cap --format=csv``.

**Step 3. Install via Python.** We recommend that you install ``mlc_llm`` as a Python package, giving you
access to ``mlc_llm.compile``, ``mlc_llm.ChatModule``, and the CLI.
There are two ways to do so:

    .. tabs ::

       .. code-tab :: bash Install via environment variable

          export PYTHONPATH=/path-to-mlc-llm/python:$PYTHONPATH

       .. code-tab :: bash Install via pip local project

          conda activate your-own-env
          which python # make sure python is installed, expected output: path_to_conda/envs/your-own-env/bin/python
          cd /path-to-mlc-llm/python
          pip install -e .

**Step 4. Validate installation.** You may validate if MLC libarires and mlc_llm CLI is compiled successfully using the following command:

.. code-block:: bash
    :caption: Validate installation

    # expected to see `libmlc_llm.so` and `libtvm_runtime.so`
    ls -l ./build/
    # expected to see help message
    mlc_llm chat -h

Finally, you can verify installation in command line. You should see the path you used to build from source with:

.. code:: bash

   python -c "import mlc_llm; print(mlc_llm)"
